[Music]
from the deepest depths of the sea to
the highest mountain peaks ain't no
mountain high enough thanks Diana Ross
humans seem to have seen everything
there is to be discovered on earth but
is it really so in fact not in the least
our planet hides so many secrets that we
might spend another thousand years and
still not see at all and yet recent
discoveries make scientists all over the
world ring the alarm bells the earth
might be in more danger than we thought
as you might know the deepest point on
the planet is the Mariana Trench in the
Pacific Ocean there have been many
attempts to explore it and they've been
rewarded with fascinating discoveries of
new and amazing species marine
researchers say though that biodiversity
of the ocean is much greater than that
we have only found about 5% of creatures
dwelling under the sea and we've no idea
what else can be lurking down there some
even say there could be a Megalodon
shark somewhere in the deeper waters but
that's another video in the meantime
several people have gone to the deepest
place there is in the world the
Challenger Deep its bottom is at 35,000
853 feet which is deeper than Mount
Everest is tall there's no light there
it's freezing cold and the pressure of
water is so high that a person would be
squashed in the blink of an eye
and yet something has been found there
something disturbing
you see there are still plenty of places
in the world where humans have never
stepped foot it might come as a surprise
when we have advanced so much in
technology but it really is so most of
these places are of course under the
surface of the earth there are huge
uncharted cave networks underground and
vast spaces beneath the seabed that have
only been explored instrumentally for
example there's a large maze of caves
under the island of Majorca in Spain
that haven't been mapped yet and
recently an enormous sea of fresh water
has been discovered beneath the Atlantic
Ocean but even without stepping into
these wondrous places humans have
managed to leave their trace there when
I told you about the Challenger Deep I
mentioned that several people have been
down there one of these brave explorers
was Victor visco Valle who dared the
abyss in his submersible called the
limiting factor he ventured there alone
and broke the record for the deepest
solo dive said previously by James
Cameron he dropped to the very bottom of
the ocean and stayed there for a while
looking out for signs of life and making
incredible photos but even as he made
another photo of the otherworldly
seascape he noticed something strange
and that was a plastic bag and candy
wrappers imagine the shock he felt when
he saw these things in the place where
no human can survive this finding could
only mean one thing human trash has
found a way even in the most pristine
corners of the earth either that or the
deep dwellers share our love of Reese's
Cups
anyway this kaavo's discovery shook the
scientific world and researchers who
supported him in his endeavor decided to
run tests on the creatures he found down
below to evaluate how much plastic there
is in them such a revelation is nothing
but very troubling it appears that human
waste has penetrated even in places
where people themselves have no access
to and that's a dangerous situation who
knows when the Mariana Trench becomes so
polluted that its ecosystem is destroyed
the worst of it is that we won't even
know about it until it's too late
and the whole thing might be even graver
than that you see there are many
initiatives worldwide to preserve the
oceans from plastic waste but not even
one of them goes as far or rather as
deep as the Mariana Trench let alone the
Challenger Deep until today people
thought that pollution only concerned
the outer layers of the ocean but with
the recent news the trouble seems to be
much bigger than that
what's worse what must be done with it
is still unknown maybe you have some
ideas on how to improve the situation
let me know down below
yet even so ecologists have already
sounded the alarm and mobilized people
around the world about the problems
Nature has to deal with because of us
for example some suggest that the map of
the world should be updated with a new
continent a trash one right smack dab in
the middle of the Pacific Ocean there's
a huge area littered with pieces of
plastic waste it can't be seen from
above but when you get there it becomes
painfully obvious if you go to this
place and scoop some water from the
surface you'll end up with a pile of
garbage in your hands and this place
even has a name the Great Pacific
Garbage Patch or Pacific trash vortex
the patch spans about 580 thousand
square miles and it was estimated that
it contains 100 million tons of trash
100 million this is larger than some of
the biggest landfills in the world and
all that is right there in the oceans
waters marine life in the area is badly
damaged sea creatures and birds get
trapped in the trash and fish living
there eat it and become inedible no
fishing is allowed in the zone because
it's simply dangerous
what's more the patch keeps growing its
emergence was predicted in 1988 and
since that time it's grown at an
incredible rate humans haven't reduced
their waste disposal so the question of
what to do with the Garbage Patch is
wide open but if you think it's the
worst that could happen then I have even
more news for you yes today I'm on the
darker side of things sorry
it'll get better though promise so where
do you think people mostly leave their
garbage we've seen land and sea trash
fields even the Mariana Trench but what
about space yep we've reached as far out
as the Earth's orbit you see many
countries of the world send their
satellites into space and that's really
a good thing these devices help us get
connected with the rest of the world
predict weather changes and do a lot of
other useful things but have you ever
thought about what happens to them
get out of order in fact they mostly
stay out there untouched drifting slowly
in the vacuum same goes for the Rockets
launched into space part of them fall
back to earth adding to the pollution in
the oceans while the rest of them stay
in orbit by most accounts the amount of
space garbage is about 7,000 tons right
now it sounds like a trifle compared to
the Great Pacific Garbage Patch
but the alarming thing about it is that
it keeps growing by two to four percent
every year so in just about 25 years
this amount could easily be doubled
imagine looking at the skies and seeing
nothing but a layer of debris floating
high above you well this just might be
our future but hey I promise you some
brighter news didn't I so here it is
ecologists and volunteers all over the
world are actively inventing more and
more new ways to fight the trash
invasion for instance there's a method
of trapping the ocean waste in Nets that
is affordable for anyone so even you can
participate in saving our planet
moreover governments across the globe
also get actively involved in the
process they encourage people to produce
less waste and promote ways to do so all
clothes get recycled instead of just
being thrown away plastic cups and
plates get replaced with biodegradable
ones made of natural materials they're
no less durable than plastic ones but
don't pollute the environment
can you imagine there's a start-up that
makes coffee cups out of used coffee so
even the dregs become useful humans are
not as careless as they used to be in
the past we are now conscious of what
we're doing to our home planet and there
are lots of people who help the
environment
let's just hope everyone will become
equally caring soon and what about you
do you know of any ways to help reduce
the amount of waste on earth let me know
down in the comments hey if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share with a friend but hey
don't go deliberately diving drastically
deep down dangerously just yet we have
do you want me say that again now okay
we have over 2
and cool videos for you to check out
just click on this left or right video
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life